So in this module, we had a closer look at socket.io and I hope it became clear what you can do with it.
You can push information from the server to the client through that emit method provided by socket.io
and I also mentioned that socket.io is not the only way of implementing web sockets because behind the
scenes, it's that web sockets protocol that allows you to push data from the server to a connected client.
Socket.io just makes using that web socket protocol, that technology particularly easy and therefore
it's a very popular package. Definitely dive into the official docs of socket.io to learn all about
the different features it offers and what you can do with it because it's a very powerful library, it
gives you a lot of cool features,
so definitely check out the official docs to learn more about it
and of course also have a look at the other implementations you might be able to use.
I just want you to be aware that web sockets are something that build up on http, you establish them
as you'd see in our application, as a http handshake,
so you need a running http server either set up with just nodejs or a package like express and you can
use that server to establish a socket, a web socket connection on top of that.
So both run simultaneously
and as you see in our example app, we actually got both going on. We got normal requests
so to say and we take advantage of socket.io as well.
So this is an exciting piece of technology that might be interesting for your next application too
and I hope that this module provided a nice introduction to it.